About Sam 

Based in Watford, Hertfordshire. Sam Ryan has had a passion for designing and making furniture from a young age and has over the years widened his range of design knowledge in order to become a hand crafted Furniture maker and Restorer. Sam originally studied a 2 year National Diploma in 3D Design, where he covered sculptural and architectural design and furniture making, which taught him about precision to detailing in furniture design. He progressed onto a combined 3 year Degree in BA Hons Furniture Restoration and Conservation in Decorative Arts. This consisted of a 2 year Higher National Diploma in Furniture Making and a final year in Furniture Restoration. Sam has set up his workshop to restore antique and modern furniture as well as to design and make hand crafted furniture, in order to show his inspiration towards his craft skills of stylish hand constructed pieces of furniture.  

Sam is sharing his knowledge and furniture restoration skills with others, through voluntary work at 9 Lives Furniture Restoration charity in Rickmansworth.  

Sam's furniture designs are inspired by "The Arts and Crafts Movement" quality to enhance the design of a well constructed hand made piece of furniture, through attractively featured details and honest hand crafted joints that are exposed and featured to enhance the beauty of the piece.  

Each piece of furniture is constructed to best suit its design. All of the joints are hand made for greater strength with minimal fixings, to enhance the beauty of a hand made piece of furniture. Detailed features such as exposed joints and subtle smooth lines are used to show the beauty behind the design of the piece. The furniture is finished off with hand polished surfaces to enhance the design appearance and beauty of the wood.  

The individual features make each piece unique and different to one another, with their own unique characteristics that can be seen through its individual design appearance. Each piece is made space efficient for its purpose, to fit into the size given.

